Release notes for GStreamer Bad Plugins 1.0.0

The GStreamer project is pleased to announce the very first release of the
new API and ABI-stable 1.x series of the GStreamer multimedia framework.

The 1.x series is a stable series targeted at end users. It is not API or ABI
compatible with the 0.10.x series. It can, however, be installed in parallel
with the 0.10.x series and will not affect an existing 0.10.x installation.

Major improvements include: more flexible memory handling; extensible and
negotiable metadata for buffers; caps negotiation and renegotiation mechanisms,
decoupled from buffer allocation; improved caps renegotiation; automatic
re-sending of state for dynamic pipelines; reworked and more fine-grained pad
probing; simpler and more descriptive audio and video caps; more efficient
allocation of buffers, events and other mini objects; improved timestamp
handling; support for gobject-inspection-based language bindings; countless
other improvements.

Most of these changes involve the GStreamer plugin API. The application API
has changed comparatively little, and most applications should be fairly easy
to port to the new API. There is a porting guide available.

The GStreamer team would like to thank everyone who helped bring this release
about, whether by submitting patches, reporting bugs, testing, sponsoring
development, attending hackfests, or simply supplying moral support.

This is the end of a long development process, but also the beginning of
one. This release does not mark the pinnacle of perfection, but the point
where the team is content with the API and stability and quality of the code
base in general, especially compared to the old 0.10 series.

There will be bugs to fix, and starting from this release there will be
distinct bug-fixing and feature development cycles, with the goal of getting
bug-fixes out quicker and unencumbered by other more risky changes. See

  http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/wiki/ReleasePlanning/RoadMap

for a tentative road map and possible schedule.

=== Module

"That an accusation?"

No perfectly groomed moustache or any amount of fine clothing is going to
cover up the truth - these plugins are Bad with a capital B.
They look fine on the outside, and might even appear to get the job done, but
at the end of the day they're a black sheep. Without a golden-haired angel
to watch over them, they'll probably land in an unmarked grave at the final
showdown.

Don't bug us about their quality - exercise your Free Software rights,
patch up the offender and send us the patch on the fastest steed you can
steal from the Confederates. Because you see, in this world, there's two
kinds of people, my friend: those with loaded guns and those who dig.
You dig.

This module contains a set of plugins that aren't up to par compared to the
rest.  They might be close to being good quality, but they're missing something
- be it a good code review, some documentation, a set of tests, a real live
maintainer, or some actual wide use.  If the blanks are filled in they might be
upgraded to become part of either gst-plugins-good or gst-plugins-ugly,
depending on the other factors.
If the plugins break, you can't complain - instead, you can fix the
problem and send us a patch, or bribe someone into fixing them for you.
New contributors can start here for things to work on.


Other modules containing plugins are:

 gst-plugins-base : a basic set of well-supported plugins
 gst-plugins-good : a set of well-supported plugins under our preferred license
 gst-plugins-ugly : a set of well-supported plugins, but might pose problems
                        for distributors
 gst-libav        : a set of codecs plugins based on libav (formerly gst-ffmpeg)

==== Download

You can find source releases of gstreamer in the download directory:

  http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gstreamer/

==== GStreamer Homepage

More details can be found on the project's website:

  http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/

==== Support and Bugs

We use GNOME's bugzilla for bug reports and feature requests:

  http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=GStreamer
 or
  http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/bugs/

==== Developers

GStreamer is stored in Git, hosted at git.freedesktop.org, and can be
cloned from there. Interested developers of the core library, plugins, and
applications should subscribe to the gstreamer-devel list and/or pop into
our #gstreamer IRC channel on Freenode.

==== Contributors to this release

  Alban Browaeys
  Albert Astrals Cid
  Aleix Conchillo Flaque
  Alessandro Decina
  Andoni Morales Alastruey
  Andre Moreira Magalhaes (andrunko)
  Andy Wingo
  Antoine Tremblay
  Arnaud Vrac
  Arun Raghavan
  Benjamin Otte
  blake tregre
  Brian Pepple
  Carlos Rafael Giani
  Carsten Kroll
  Christian Fredrik Kalager Schaller
  Damien Lespiau
  Danilo Cesar Lemes de Paula
  David Biomech360
  David Schleef
  Dmitry Ketov
  Edward Hervey
  Fabrizio (Misto) Milo
  Gil Pedersen
  Guillaume Desmottes
  Gwenole Beauchesne
  Jacob Meuser
  Jan Schmidt
  John Hein
  Jonas Larsson
  Julian Scheel
  Julien Isorce
  Lasse Laukkanen
  Luis de Bethencourt
  Lukáš Lalinský
  Marc-André Lureau
  Mark Nauwelaerts
  Mart Raudsepp
  Matej Knopp
  Michael Smith
  Mike Ruprecht
  Nicola Murino
  Nicolas Dufresne
  Oleksij Rempel (Alexey Fisher)
  Olivier Crête
  Patricia Muscalu
  Peter Kjellerstedt
  Peter Korsgaard
  Peter Seiderer
  Philippe Normand
  Raimo Järvi
  René Stadler
  Reynaldo H. Verdejo Pinochet
  Rico Tzschichholz
  Rob Clark
  Robert Swain
  Sebastian Dröge
  Sebastian Rasmussen
  Sreerenj Balachandran
  Stefan Kost
  Stefan Sauer
  Thiago Santos
  Thibault Saunier
  Thomas Vander Stichele
  Tim-Philipp Müller
  Tommi Myöhänen
  Tony Houghton
  Vincent Penquerc'h
  Wim Taymans
  Wind Yuan
  Xavier Queralt
  Youness Alaoui
  Zaheer Abbas Merali
  Zhao Halley
  Руслан Ижбулатов
