Hi,

   This is the gstreamer MikMod plugin. It is able to play the IT, XM, S3M, 
 MTM, 669, STM, ULT, FAR, MED, AMF, DSM, IMF, GDM, STX, OKT and of course MOD
 module formats.

  Take a look to : http://mikmod.raphnet.net/

 
 Usage : gstreamer-launch filesrc location=foo.mod ! mikmod ! osssink
     or  gst-player foo.mod


Properties :

  musicvolume :
    Volume of the module. Allowed values range from 0 to 128. The default value is 128. 

  pansep :
    Stereo channels separation. Allowed values range from 0 (no separation, thus mono sound) 
    to 128 (full channel separation). The default value is 128. 

  reverb :
    Amount of sound reverberation. Allowed values range from 0 (no reverberation) to 15 
    (a rough estimate for chaos...). The default value is 6. 

  sndfxvolume :
    Volume of the sound effects. Allowed values range from 0 to 128. The default value is 128. 

  volume :
    Overall sound volume. Allowed values range from 0 to 128. The default value is 96

  interp : 
    This flag, if set, enables the interpolated mixers. Interpolated mixing gives better 
    sound but takes a bit more time than standard mixing. If the library is built with the 
    high quality mixer, interpolated mixing is always enabled, regardless of this flag. The
    default value is false.

  reverse : 
    This flag, if set, exchanges the left and right stereo channels. The default value is false.

  surround : 
    This flag, if set, enables the surround mixers. Since surround mixing works only for stereo 
    sound, this flag has no effect if the sound playback is in mono. The default value is true.

  16bit : 
    This flag, if set, selects 16 bit sound mode. This mode yields better sound quality, but needs 
    twice more mixing time. The default value is true.

  hqmixer :
    This flag, if set, selects the high-quality software mixer. This mode yields better sound quality,
    but needs more mixing time. Of course, this flag has no effect if no DMODE_SOFT_xx flag is set.
    The default value is false.

  soft_music : 
    This flag, if set, selects software mixing of the module. The default value is true.

  soft_sndfx :
    This flag, if set, selects software mixing of the sound effects. The default value is true.

  stereo :  
    This flag, if set, selects stereo sound. The default value is true.
    
--
Apoc    


/*  MikMod sound library
    (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Miodrag Vallat and others - see file AUTHORS
    for complete list.

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as
    published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
    the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU Library General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
    02111-1307, USA.
*/
